Hi, everyone.
In this next year, we will be finding velocities for the extraction and the Y direction.
All right, so before actually creating this scam, we need to have some variables and the first one,
I'm just going to say if B.S. frames per second now, why do we need offices?
Because we I think it was actually I don't remember which I think it was the moving star project where
I told you that there are two ways of creating that game loop.
One way was the method of set animation frame.
So request animation frame.
And the second one was set interval in this structure.
What I want to talk about is I want to grab the center and set interval function or method, and through
that I want to create the game.
So, you know both of these cases.
All right.
So the radius of the ball let's create that is going to be 50 the same the same radius that we had before.
Now, I'm going to initially declared these, but not initialize them the positions.
So I'm going to say X and Y P, right.
And I'm also going to say let now the X velocity.
I'm just going to say X capital V and the Y velocity.
I'm going to say Y Capital V instead of writing that horizontal velocity, which is going to end up
with like we're going to end up with a lot of typos and errors.
This is a better representation of that.
Now, just going over the velocity one more time now, speed that we talked about in a previous chapter
is how fast something moves.
We don't care about the direction.
Right.
But velocity is that speed plus a direction.
All right.
And what we want in here is we want to grab our velocities in pixels per frame so we know that we have
60 frames in one second.
How many pixels do we have in that one frame of one second?
So you can see that how how detailed this process is.
So eventually we are going to convert our X and Y V or velocities to two pixels per frame rather than
pixels per second.
Right.
And another common convention for velocity.
It's and it is actually mathematically correct is DKS for the X velocity and DUI for the Y velocity.
But I'm just going to stick to this convention.
All right.
So now what I want to do here is I'm going to grab our X coordinate and I'm going to say, OK, so what
is the X coordinate of this ball?
I'm going to specify that as a canvas element.
So let's say, OK, I should open this up with live server.
OK, come on, buddy, so we can see that we don't have a ball, but we have our canvas.
Now, if I want to put the ball right in the middle of the canvas vertically and horizontally, what
is this point now?
This point is canvas element that with so I'm going to say canvas element dot with now canvas element
dot with at this point is zero at this point.
We have canvas Arminda with what is the between of them is canvas element.
Dudd width divided by two is going to give us the center point right there.
So I'm just going to divide it by two.
The same thing we are going to do for the Y position.
We are going to say that canvas element does height divided by two is going to give us the middle point
in the vertical direction midpoint.
So we have specified the height, the position and the Y position for our ball.
And from this we can grab the velocities.
All right.
So what what I what I'm going to do is actually velocity has nothing to do with this.
We are just going to randomly specify that.
So I'm going to say X V, which is the horizontal velocity equals mass.
I just want to generate a random velocity.
One of the features of this game is whenever you reload the velocity, the direction that the ball moves
towards two is going to change as well as the velocity.
So now you can see the ball is faster here.
The ball is, I think, the same the same speed thing, the same, the same.
Now here it is obvious that it is slower, right?
Faster, faster, faster, fast, slow.
And then we get fast, fast, fast, slow again.
So each time the page reloads, we are going to have a random velocity for X and a random velocity for
a Y.
So now here is where you specify the velocity.
Now the velocity for this ball is two or one plus ninety nine.
So if I put it to five o one plus ninety nine for X and Y and if I said what you can see that the ball
is moving faster.
So if you want to move faster, you just go ahead and give it higher numbers.
I'm going to stick to two or one plus 99.
And what does this mean?
So the math that random is going to either give us zero or one or values between that.
We don't care about the values between that, because what we are going to get, what we are going to
oops, where we are going to do here is we are going to lower this value.
So it doesn't really matter whether we get zero point one zero point two, because we are going to FLOHR
That right?
It means that we are going to rounded off a rounded up to the next integer to the nearest integer.
So if math are random, gives us zero point for Mark, that floor is going to give us zero.
OK, if math are random, gives us, for example, one math, the floor is not going to do anything.
So if so, the outcome of math that random is going to be either zero or one.
If it is one one times two or one, we are going to get to a one two one plus 999.
We are going to get 300.
So the speed is so the velocity is going to be 300 for the X direction.
And if the other random is zero zero times two one zero and we are going to get 99, the same thing
we want to do for the Y velocity as well.
I don't want to declare them to the same thing, but they could be the same if randomly they are the
same.
Right now what what this gives us is going to be pixels per second, but we want pixels per frame,
not per second.
We have frames per second.
So how many pixels are in one frame?
We know there are 60 frames in one second, but how many pixels are in one frame?
So for that, we just divided by our AFPs.
Uh, F.P., yes.
And this one is divided by AFPs as well.
So now the the outcome of this velocity and this velocity is going to be pixels per frame.
So we are either going to have like two like 300 pixels per frame and 60 frames per one second, which
is going to be, I think, 18000.
Or 1800, I think it's 800, so let's grab the calculator.
So 60 multiplied by 300.
Yeah, 18000.
I was correct.
So we are either going to have 18000 or 99 times 30, 60, whatever the result of that is.
So we have successfully achieved the X velocity and the velocity.
We have randomized it in our games.
We are going to come up with a better way of actually doing this.
Now, what I want to do is I want to go back to these Random Stars project where we had a sort of coin
toss situation where if the if you guys remember the random sine function, which is the four for which
we had, if the outcome of the math, the random is equal to or above zero point five, we would have
returned one or a positive sign.
And if it was less than zero point five, we would have returned in negative side.
So we basically want to grab a sign from that.
And either that sign is positive or negative randomly, whatever the random, whatever randomly it is.
So in this case, we also have a coin.
It's called a coin toss situation in game development in JavaScript.
I'm not sure about the other engines, but in here, what I'm going to do is I'm going to do this differently.
So we have a math done at random which is going to generate random numbers.
But I want random whole numbers, so I'm just going to multiply it by two.
But this is not going to give me how it's going to give me two point one something or two point to something.
But I want to floor this as well.
So it gives me like whole and whole integers of floor, just going to say math dot floor and then.
Now if this value if this value that comes out of that equals zero, what do I want to do?
I want to grab the X velocity and I want to change it to the other direction.
So if the X velocity was positive, it means that the the ball is moving to the right.
I want to move it to the left central.
And the same thing goes for the y axis, for the y directions velocity.
I'm just going to grab this stuff and I'm going to convert it to why they could be the same randomly.
But other than that, I do not want a hard code them to be the same.
So that's set for this lecture in the next lecture.
We're going to create the game loop.
And also if if there was some time, we are going to go over the collision detection for this particular
project as well.
See you guys in the next one.